Step 1: Measure and Set Goals

A. Outside Research and Security Risks

Poor communication
A user who does not understand their company’s BYOD security policy is an instant vulnerability. To make matters worse, less than half of all companies that allow BYOD have a policy in place. “You can set up security across your network, but how effective will it be without policy?” says Jeff Hunt, Cisco Sales Engineer for D&H Distributing and network security expert. “Policy is a big part of BYOD, and it’s the part many people forget.”

Lost or stolen devices
Over 60 percent of network breaches are due to a lost or stolen device. This would be your worst-case scenario because a single missing device containing sensitive data is enough to jeopardize the entire business.

Unsecure Networks
“The convenience that allows people to do their jobs gives others the same convenience to intercept their data,” Hunt says. Free public Wi-Fi in the airport coffee shop is convenient, but its unsecure wireless network puts your company’s data at risk. 40 percent of mobile devices used for work get exposed to an attack in the first four months of use.

Malicious Apps 
The number one mobile security concern among IT pros is users downloading apps infiltrated with malicious malware code. A free flashlight app you downloaded is helpful when you drop your car keys in the parking lot, but there is also a chance it’s even more helpful to the cybercriminal who’s secretly using it to access your device.
B. Preferred Behavior.
The Preferred behavior for this scenario would be that employees would not conduct work on personal devices. Employees would use company assigned devices and personal phones only if company provided. Management software is installed to prevent unapproved app installs, offer endpoint protection, and allow for remote wipe if lost or stolen.
C. Measure current Issue
The company should scan to see what byod’s are on the network and also monitor what devices are accessing company assets. MDM software could also be used to monitor what apps are installed and what resources are accessed.


Step 2: Involve the Right People
CEO - They should know how much of an issue byod is and what steps will need to be taken to fix any issues as a result of BYOD usage. They will also make a directive to either allow BYOD’s or ban usage and allow only company assigned hardware.
HR - They will need to work with IT to work out a training for new employees and existing. Also, they will need to have users sign a document allowing the company to install MDM software on devices.
Compliance Officer - Will need to work with IT to develop a policy on proper BYOD usage if allowed or a policy on non-usage of BYOD in the workplace. Compliance will ensure the policy meets company standards and is understandable by employees.
IT - Will need to develop a plan to c\]scan for and monitor BYOD devices on the network. IT will also need to find a MDM solution for any BYOD’s if allowed as well as company provided equipment.
Department Managers will need to monitor for employee misuse of any BYOD’s or company provided equipment. They will also need to be trained in what to look for and proper actions to take if they do witness misuse.


Step 3: Training Plan
New Employees will be trained as part of their orientation on proper use of BYOD’s if allowed as well as any company assigned devices supplied. Existing employees will have an annual training to cover the current policy for BYOD and company assigned hardware. IT staff will be trained on managing byod’s and any MDM platform adopted by the company.


Bonus: Other Solutions

No BYOD Solution.
Administrative control
It will be preventative to keep employees from using personal devices for work.
This would negate the company from having to implement extra security to manage BYOD’s.
The disadvantage would be that the company would need to provide proper equipment for the employee.
Non Company devices blocked on wifi
 This would be a Technical Control
It will prevent personal devices from accessing company resources.
The disadvantage would be extra manpower to configure and manage a solution to prevent user owned devices from connecting.
